2024 Edition
                                 Contents
SECTION 1 – Background information

  Q1	What is the relationship between investors, securities companies, and
      securities exchanges such as the Tokyo Stock Exchange?
  Q2	How are orders placed with securities companies dealt with in the TSE trading
      system?
  Q3  What time (auction trading sessions) is trading conducted at the TSE?
  Q4  What types of orders are there?
  Q5	Are there orders that are placed with specific conditions, such as execution
      only at the opening auctions or afternoon session closing auctions?
  Q6  What is the price increment (tick sizes) when placing orders?
  Q7  How are the “daily price limits” determined?
  Q8  What price is used as the basis (base price) for the daily price limit?
  Q9  What is a “trading unit”?
  Q10 How do investors exchange funds and the like?


SECTION 2 – How trading works on TSE

  Q11   How are stock prices determined? (Itayose and Zaraba methods)
  Q12   How are opening prices determined? (Conditions for Itayose method)
  Q13   How are stock prices determined during a continuous auction (Zaraba)?
  Q14	How is the priority of order execution decided? (Principles of Price and Time
        Priority)
  Q15	Orders before the determination of the opening price, etc. are handled as
        orders accepted at the same time (i.e., simultaneous orders). How is order
        priority determined and how are such orders executed?
  Q16 	How are simultaneous orders allocated? (Part 1) (Method to determine
        quantity allocated to each securities company)
  Q17	How are simultaneous orders allocated? (Par t 2) (Allocation of orders
        according to priority with each execution)
  Q18	Is it possible for stock prices to jump suddenly, for example from ¥1,000 to
        ¥1,100?
  Q19   What is a “special quote”?
  Q20	How are prices determined when a special quote is indicated? (Part 1)
        (E.g.1: Trading is executed at a price widely divergent from the last price)
  Q21   How are prices determined when a special quote is indicated? (Part 2)
        (E.g. 2: No execution due to order imbalance)
  Q22	Why are special quotes sometimes not renewed to their daily limit prices?
        (Why are there cases where an SQ is not renewed?)
  Q23  What is a “sequential trade quote”?
  Q24  How are prices determined when a sequential trade quote is indicated?
  Q25  What is a “closing auction at the limit price”?
  Q26  How are closing auctions at the limit price processed?
  Q27  What is a “closing auction session”?
  Q28	How are orders executed in the closing auction session (Itayose at the close of
       the afternoon session)?
  Q29  Is there a special mechanism for trading newly-listed stocks?
  Q30  What is a trading halt?
  Q31	What are a Security to Be Delisted, Security Under Supervision, Security on
       Special Alert, and Alert Regarding Unclear Information, etc.?
  Q32  When does TSE broaden the daily price limits?


SECTION 3 – TSE market information services

  Q33    What kind of market information is available to investors?
  Q34    How are the ten best offer/bid quotes indicated?
  Q35    How are special quotes indicated?
  Q36    How are pre-opening quotes indicated?


SECTION 4 – How trading works on ToSTNeT

  Q37    What is “ToSTNeT”?
  Q38    What are the trading rules and criteria for ToSTNeT?
  Q39    What is Share Buyback (or Repurchase) via ToSTNeT?
  SECTION 1
— Background information —




            1
          What is the relationship between investors, securities
 Q1       companies, and securities exchanges such as the Tokyo
          Stock Exchange?
A securities exchange does not only have the role of establishing a market to provide
investors with a venue for trading, but also performs operations such as disseminating
market information and ensuring appropriate disclosure by listed companies, in order to
provide fair and smooth trading on its markets. (At Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE),
regulatory business, which includes examining companies seeking to list on the market,
and market surveillance of whether trading is conducted in a fair manner, is entrusted to
Japan Exchange Regulation, the self-regulatory organization.)

The parties who may be directly involved in trading at securities exchanges are limited to
trading participants of the exchange. In other words, orders placed by individual investors
and other securities companies who are not trading participants of the exchange will be
routed to the exchange market through a trading participant.

For example, Customer A of securities company A (a trading participant) will be able to
place orders directly through securities company A. On the other hand, an order placed
by Customer B through securities company B (not a trading participant) will be further
routed through securities company A.

After receiving the brokerage order, securities company A will screen the order for insider
trading and other manipulative intent before sending it to the TSE market. Once securities
company A is certain that the order is legitimate, it will be placed and declared as a
brokerage order.

Trading participants are also able to make trades on their proprietary accounts, that is
conduct trading using their own cash and securities. They must declare such orders as
proprietary orders when they send them to the market. Trading on proprietary accounts is
often referred to as “dealing.”

The sections responsible for brokerage and proprietary trading are strictly segregated
within a securities company so that there is no possibility of information being shared
between the two.

Orders placed through securities company A will be sent and executed with the securities
company A as the party involved in the trade, and settlement at the exchange will also be
performed through the same securities company.




                                              3
Trading at a securities exchange is performed in this way through securities companies.
There are several different methods for individual investors to place orders with securities
companies such as internet or online trading, or trading through staff of securities
companies. Individual investors are thus able to select a method most suited to their
needs, basing their decisions on commission rates, and access to market information.

(In order to facilitate understanding, trading participants are referred to as securities
companies in other parts of this guide.)




                                           4
          How are orders placed with securities companies dealt with
 Q2       in the TSE trading system?
Previously, transactions at TSE were handled by people on the trading floor, known as
floor-traders. Many people are probably familiar with the scene of floor-traders of various
securities companies competing with each other’s bids and offers on a bustling trading
floor. However, nowadays trading no longer goes through floor-traders, because trading
on the market has been completely computerized.

1. Orders from Securities Companies to TSE
Orders placed by investors to securities companies who are trading participants are sent
through the network to TSE.

2. Processing of Order Acceptance at TSE
All orders received from securities companies are sorted according to, amongst other
things, the securities company (which company placed the order), the name of the issue,
the number of stocks, whether it is a buy or sell order, the order price, the order type, and
the time of order acceptance (the time the order reached TSE), and registered to the
trading system.

3. Trade Execution at TSE
All registered orders are executed according to TSE trading rules, and execution notices
are immediately sent to the securities companies electronically through the network.




                                               5
4. Dissemination of market information
In addition to accepting orders and trade execution, at the same time TSE also
disseminates market information such as “what is the price of X stock”, and “how many
shares of Y stocks can be bought or sold at what price” on a real-time basis, allowing
individual investors to make informed decisions. Normally, individual investors access
such information via information vendor terminals and securities companies’ websites.

Please see Q33 for more details on information provided by TSE.




                                         6
          What time (auction trading sessions) is trading conducted at
 Q3       the TSE ?
Trading hours at TSE are split into two sessions: 09:00~11:30 and 12:30~15:30. (“closing
auction session” from 15:25 to 15:30) The trading session in the morning is known as
the “morning trading session”; the one in the afternoon is the “afternoon trading session”.
(Please see Q27 for more details on the closing auction session. )

The first transactions of each session are executed at the “opening auction”, and they are
known as the “morning opening auction” and “afternoon opening auction” for the morning
and afternoon trading sessions respectively. The end of the sessions is when the “closing
auction” is conducted, and they are known as the “morning closing auction” and
“afternoon closing auction” for the morning and afternoon trading sessions respectively.
The period other than the opening and closing auctions, are known as “continuous
auction” or “Zaraba”.

The hours at which orders from securities companies are accepted by TSE are 08:00~
11:30 and 12:05~15:30, as illustrated in the diagram below.




                                          ※ Closing Auction Session from 15:25 to 15:30

This diagram only illustrates the hours that TSE accepts orders from securities companies.
This may be different from the hours investors may place orders with securities
companies. Indeed, the Internet and other developments mean that some securities
companies accept orders 24 hours a day.

Orders at TSE are valid for only one day, so if an order is not executed and a customer
wishes for it to be placed on the following day, a securities company must place the order
again in the morning of the following day.




                                              7
 Q4       What types of orders are there?

Basically there are two types of orders available on the TSE equities market: limit orders
and market orders.

Limit orders
Limit orders are orders at specific prices, meaning that investors have stated that they
want to “buy at not more than XX yen, or sell at not less than XX yen”.
In other words a limit order represents the lowest/highest price at which the investor is
willing to sell/buy. Limit orders offer investors the reassurance that they will not find
themselves selling/buying at an unexpectedly low/high price. Consequently though, limit
orders will not be executed if there are no orders matching the specific price requirements.

Market orders
Market orders are orders by investors who want to “sell or buy at any available price”.
They do not indicate specific prices, but are executed at the available price on the market
at the time.
Market orders take precedence over limit orders, and its ease of execution is a key merit.
However, since no price conditions are set for market orders, it is possible that an order
may be executed at an unexpected price such as buying at ¥1,050 instead of the expected
price of ¥1,000. Thus it is very important that investors exercise caution when placing
market orders.




                                           8
          Are there orders that are placed with specific conditions,
 Q5       such as execution only at the opening auctions or afternoon
          session closing auctions?
As explained in Q4, the two main types of orders are limit and market orders. There are
some specific execution conditions which may be attached to orders. Some examples are
given below.

 1) Orders to be executed only during the opening auction
 2) Orders to be executed only during the closing auction
 3) Limit orders that become market orders at the closing auction if not already executed
 4) IOC (Immediate or Cancel) orders

1) “Orders to be executed only during the opening auction” are orders that are only
executed at the opening auctions of either the morning session or the afternoon session,
where the opening price for the day or after the break in the day is determined. When
placing such orders with your securities company, attach a condition by giving specific
instructions, for example “I want to buy 1,000 shares of XX company at ¥1,500 at the
opening auction of the afternoon session (when the opening price for the afternoon
session is determined).”
Such orders are only effective during the opening auction. It follows that if a customer’s
order was not executed during the opening auction, it will become void.
In addition, in the case of an order placed for execution during the opening auction of the
morning session, if it was not executed during the morning session (opening price was not
determined), the order will be brought over to the afternoon session.

2) “Orders to be executed only during the closing auction” (also known as on-close orders)
are orders that are only executed at the closing auctions of either the morning session
(11:30) or the afternoon session (15:30). When placing such orders with your securities
company, attach a condition by giving specific instructions, for example “I want to buy 1,000
shares of XX company at ¥1,500 at the closing auction of the afternoon session.”
Such orders are only effective during the closing auction. It follows that if a customer’s
order was not executed during the closing auction, it will become void.
In addition, if an order that is placed for execution at the closing auction of the morning
session was not executed at the closing auction of the morning session, it will not be
brought over to the afternoon session.

3) “Limit orders that become market orders at the closing auction if not already executed”
(also known as funari orders) are orders that are effective as limit orders up till the end
of the auction sessions, and in case they are not executed during the continuous auction
or Zaraba, they become market orders during the morning closing auction and the pre-
closing session (Please see Q27 for more details on the pre-closing session). An example
of use is a case where a customer says, “It would be best if I could buy them at ¥1,000 or
less, but if I can’t do that before the closing auction, I will change the order to a market
order, because I want to buy the shares at any price.”

4) “IOC (Immediate or Cancel) Orders” are orders with the condition to immediately
execute all or part of the quantity of the order at a specified or better price and the
remaining unexecuted quantity of such order will become void. They are not available in
situations where execution does not occur immediately, for example before the opening
auction and during a trading halt.


                                               9
 Q6       What is the price increment (tick sizes) when placing orders?

When placing limit orders, the prices at which you can place orders are based on price
increments, which are also known as “tick sizes”. Tick sizes are determined by the stock
price.
For example, if you wish to place an order for a stock priced at ¥3,000 or less, you can
place orders in ¥1 intervals. However, orders for a stock priced above ¥3,000 but ¥5,000
or less cannot be placed at ¥1 intervals at prices such as ¥3,001 or ¥3,673. Instead,
orders may only be placed at ¥5 intervals, for example at ¥3,005 or ¥3,675.

Narrower tick sizes are applied to TOPIX500 (TOPIX100 and TOPIX Mid400) constituents,
which are high liquidity stocks, to offer price improvement and shorter waiting times till
order execution. And as a general rule, narrower tick sizes are applied to ETFs and ETNs.




                                         10
 Q7       How are the “daily price limits” determined?

Stock prices are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and
offers. However, prices do not reach 10 or 20 times the opening price during the day.
This is because TSE sets a price range, known as the “daily price limit”, within which price
fluctuations are limited in a single trading day.

Stock prices should ideally be determined based on a free market, and price restrictions
are deemed undesirable. However, because stock prices reflect investor psychology,
there may be sudden large price fluctuations which lead to investors incurring unexpected
losses. To prevent such wild volatility, TSE sets daily price limits for each stock, within the
range of which stock prices may fluctuate safely.

Daily price limits are set in absolute yen basically according to prices such as the previous
day’s closing price (This is known as the “base price”. Please see Q8 for more details on
the base price). Daily price limits are set out in the table on the next page. For example, if
the previous day’s closing price is ¥1,000, the lower and upper limits will be ¥700 and
¥1,300 respectively. No trading may take place outside of these limits.

Daily price limits also apply to orders, so that no limit orders may be placed outside of
these limits.




                                                11
12
          What price is used as the basis (base price) for the daily
 Q8       price limit?
The price used as the basis (base price) for the daily price limit for a day is basically the
closing price of the previous day, except in cases where a special quote was displayed at
the closing or the previous day was an ex-dividend day. (Please see Q19 for more details
on special quotes.)

Special quotes
Even in the event that there is trading during the “Zaraba” or continuous auction session, if
there is a large volume of buy or sell orders at the close of the afternoon session, there
may be a case where a special quote is displayed at the close of Zaraba trading (at 15:25)
and the afternoon session ends without any executions at the afternoon closing auction. In
such cases, the special quote is not the last execution price during “Zaraba”, but instead
indicates the balance of the order book at the close of the afternoon session.

For example, if a stock’s last recorded transaction at 15:20 is at ¥1,000 but there are no
subsequent transactions, and due to a deluge of buy orders a special bid quote at ¥1,030
is displayed at the close of Zaraba trading and the afternoon session ends without any
executions at the afternoon closing auction, then the following day’s base price will be
¥1,030, not ¥1,000 (the daily price limit is ¥300, and the lower and upper limits are ¥730
and ¥1,330 respectively). If the stock price moves to ¥1,330 on the following day, even
though it seems that the price has risen by ¥330 since the last execution price, it had
essentially risen by ¥300.

This is the main reason why there may be discrepancies between the daily price limits
calculated using the closing prices reported in newspapers and such media organizations
and the actual daily price limits; these closing prices are usually last execution prices, not
last special quotes.

Ex-dividend and ex-rights day
In the case where the rights such as those to receive dividends on shares or subscribe to
new shares are granted to shareholders, the base price will be adjusted. Such rights are
granted to shareholders on a particular record date. Investors who become shareholders
after the record date (known as “ex-dividend day” and “ex-rights day”) will not be eligible
for such rights.

It follows that investors who become shareholders before the record date will be eligible to
receive dividends, while those who become shareholders after that will not. After the
record date, the share price will theoretically be lower by the amount equivalent to the
dividend amount per share.




                                               13
For example, in cases that the expected dividend is ¥5 per share, the base price after the
ex-dividend day is the previous day’s closing price minus ¥5 and the daily price limit is
based on this revised base price. Therefore, if the previous day’s closing price was
¥1,100, the base price after the ex-dividend date will be ¥1,095. The daily price limit on
the following day will be ¥300 and trading may take place between the lower and upper
limits of ¥795 and ¥1,395 respectively.

In cases relating to rights allotment, we will not be able to do a direct comparison with the
previous day because the conditions are different.




                                           14
 Q9       What is a “trading unit”?

Stocks at a securities exchange are traded in quantities that are integral multiples of the
predetermined trading unit of each issue.
The trading unit of common shares for all listed domestic companies is standardized to
100 shares, while that of ETFs, REITs, listed foreign companies, and other products varies
depending on the issue.

For example, the trading unit for NIPPON STEEL CORPORATION (code: 5401) is 100
shares, as it is trading of common shares of a domestic listed company. It follows that
trading will be in lots of 100, 200, or 300 shares. In the case of Nikkei 225 Exchange
Traded Fund (code: 1321), on the other hand, the trading unit is set to one unit and said
product can be traded in one unit.

The most accessible source of information on trading units of individual stocks is probably
the markets section in the newspaper and the JPX website. You will be able to find out the
trading unit for each individual stock.

As less variation in trading units results in a reduction in erroneous order placements
in stock trading, trading units of all common stocks of listed domestic companies were
consolidated to 100 shares on October 1, 2018, so that the market will be more convenient
to investors and market users as a whole.




                                              15
Q10 How do investors exchange funds and the like?
Investors are required to settle their transactions by hand over purchase money, etc. to
their securities company on the two business days after the trade date.

For example, transactions on Monday need to be settled on Wednesday, and those on
Friday on the following Tuesday.

Relationship between transaction and settlement

                                          Transaction 1
                                          Transaction 2
                                          Settlement of Transaction 1 (T+2)
        Record date for dividend          Settlement of Transaction 2 (T+2)
        payment, etc. to shareholders




                                        16
   SECTION 2
— How trading works on TSE —




             17
Q11 How are stock prices determined? (Itayose and Zaraba
    methods)
At the TSE, stock prices are determined by two methods, the Itayose and Zaraba
methods. The Itayose method is mainly used to decide opening and closing prices in
consideration of the balance between buy and sell orders; the Zaraba method is used to
execute orders as and when they enter the order book during continuous auction trading.

Itayose
The Itayose method is used to determine prices in the following situations:
1. The opening and closing prices for the morning and afternoon sessions.
2. The initial price after resumption of trading after a trading halt.
3. The price when a special quote is indicated.
   (Please see Q19 for an explanation of special quotes.)
4. The price when a sequential trade quote is indicated.
   (Please see Q23 for an explanation of sequential trade quotes)

The following table illustrates the order book at the start of the morning session. Orders
are accepted from 08:00, but no transactions take place before the session opens at
09:00. This means that there are many sell and buy orders at various prices. It is in such
situations that the Itayose method is used to execute orders.




                                              19
Zaraba
On the other hand, the Zaraba method is used in a continual process to match orders
during the rest of the trading session. New orders are matched with those already in the
order book. After the opening price is determined, trading is executed as below when the
order book is not crossed with orders.




The TSE uses these two different methods to deal with different order book conditions.




                                         20
Q12 How are opening prices determined? (Conditions for Itayose
    method)
The term “Itayose” comes from the use of paper order books (Ita) used to record offers
(sell quotes) and bids (buy quotes) on the left and right respectively, with prices indicated
in the center, when prices were determined manually. The price is determined using the
following 3 requirements:
   a. All sell/buy market orders must be executed
   b. All limit orders to sell/buy at prices lower/higher than the execution price must be
       executed
   c. At the execution price, the entire amount of either all sell or all buy orders must be
       executed

The following table represents the order book. The center column indicates prices, the
second column from the left shows the volume of individual offers (sell), and the far left
column shows the aggregate volume of offers. The right side of the table is a mirror image
and represents the bid side (buy), with individual bids in the second column from the right
and the aggregate volume in the far right column. Market orders on both sides are
displayed in the first line at the top.

We start by focusing on requirements (a), (b) and (c) as set out above in order to
determine the opening price. These 3 conditions aim to determine the price at which the
amount of the aggregated* bids and offers balance out. In order to find this price, we look
at the prices at which the aggregated bids and offers invert. In this case these are ¥501
and ¥500, so the opening price is likely to be one of these two prices.




                                               21
So let’s see what happens when we assume an opening price of ¥500.




                                      22
Now, let’s double-check that ¥501 will not be determined as the opening price.




                                             23
Q13 How are stock prices determined during a continuous auction
    (Zaraba)?.
The Zaraba method, or continuous auction method, is the process used to match
individual incoming orders with orders in the order book after the opening price has been
determined and before the closing price is determined. The tables below illustrate how the
Zaraba method works.

Let’s see an example of how prices are determined during Zaraba.




                                         24
Transactions are carried out continuously in this way under the Zaraba method after
determination of the opening price during trading hours.




                                          25
Q14 How  is the priority of order execution decided?
    (Principles of price and time priority)
During auction trading, order priority is determined based on two principles: price and time
priority. This ensures that all orders are handled fairly.
The principles of time and price priority apply across the board to all orders, regardless of
whether they are orders from general investors and proprietary orders of securities
companies. Orders with high priority are executed first.

Principle of price priority
The lowest sell and highest buy orders take precedence over other orders. This method is
the same as that applied in a simple bidding auction.
For example, a buy order at ¥1,010 has priority over a buy order at ¥1,000, and will be
executed first.

Principle of time priority
Among orders at the same price, the order accepted earliest by the exchange takes
precedence.

Let’s take a look at how order priority is determined based on the two principles.

Buy and sell orders are placed as illustrated below.




                                           26
Although there are sell orders at both ¥501 and ¥502, those at ¥501 take precedence over
those at ¥502 as a result of price priority. Of the three orders at ¥501, in terms of time
priority, securities company F’s order takes precedence, followed by securities company E
and then securities company D. These are then followed by the orders at ¥502, with
securities company C’s order taking precedence over securities company A’s order.

Looking at the buy side of the order book, we can see that there are orders at ¥499 and
¥500. In this case the orders at ¥500 take precedence due to price priority. Of the three
orders at ¥500, securities company H’s order takes precedence, followed by securities
company B and then securities company J, as a result of time priority.

In this way, each offer and bid is prioritized and executed accordingly.




                                               27
          Orders before the determination of the opening price, etc. are handled
Q15 as orders accepted at the same time (i.e., simultaneous orders). How
          is order priority determined and how are such orders executed?
As explained in Q14, orders are normally executed based on price and time priority.
However, in the following circumstances orders are treated as simultaneous orders and
time priority is ignored:

  a. All orders placed before the opening price is determined during the morning and
      afternoon trading sessions (Note)
  b. All orders placed before the initial price is determined when trading resumes after a
      trading halt
  c. All orders at the daily limit price, which will be executed with market orders at the
      closing price of the afternoon session
  d. On-close orders and funari orders registered in the order book at the start of the pre-
      closing session and orders accepted during the pre-closing session

  Note: Regardless of whether trading occurred during the opening auction of morning
         trading session, all remaining orders from the opening auction of the morning
         trading session will be included in the opening auction of the afternoon session
         and treated as simultaneous orders.

Since time priority does not apply for simultaneous orders, there is a problem of order
priority for orders at the same price. How then is order priority determined?

While orders are executed by order unit during continuous auction, simultaneous orders
are allocated and executed by securities companies. In other words, the TSE totals up the
quantity of orders from each securities company and arranges them in descending order
of aggregated quantity of orders. One trading unit is then allocated to each securities
company in turn.

If there are multiple securities companies with the same number of orders, trading units
will be allocated based on time priority of the first order placed by the securities company.



This allocation method is also used for allocation at the daily price limit during the end of
the afternoon trading session (Please see Q25 for details on “allocation at the daily price
limit”).

Since simultaneous orders are executed by securities companies, after execution, a
securities company will then allocate the number of shares among their customers
according to their internal rules based on the execution results.




                                           28
          How are simultaneous orders allocated? (Part 1)
Q16 (Method to determine quantity allocated to each securities
          company)
As explained in Q15 above, simultaneous orders are allocated not on an order basis, but
on a securities company basis. A concrete example of how the quantity allocated is
determined is shown below.

1. Let’s assume that securities companies A, B, C, and D have placed a number of buy
orders at ¥500 before the opening price is determined in the morning trading session. The
total volume of these orders is 2,900 shares.




2. Since these are simultaneous orders, the TSE totals the number of orders for each
securities company and ranks them in descending order of quantity.




3. As explained in Q15, one trading unit is allocated in turn to each securities company in
descending order of number of orders placed. The number of shares allocated to each
securities company is determined as follows:




Simultaneous orders are allocated in this way to each securities company. With each
execution, simultaneous orders will be allocated accordingly until all orders are allocated.




                                              29
          How are simultaneous orders allocated? (Part 2)
Q17 (Allocation of orders according to priority with each
          execution)
Simultaneous orders are allocated to each securities company according to the rules
outlined in Q16.
1. When 300 shares are executed at ¥500, TSE allocates 100 shares to securities
  companies A, B, and C in order of descending order of order quantity as illustrated
  below.




2. When the next batch of 800 shares is executed, 100 shares are allocated to each
  securities company from securities company D, which was not given any the previous
  time. As such, the 200 shares of securities company D and the 300 shares of securities
  company C will all be executed.




Even if buy orders (bids) are accepted at ¥500 after the opening price is determined,
execution of simultaneous orders will take precedence over such orders, because time
priority applies to such orders. It follows that orders accepted after the opening price is
determined will only be executed during the continuous trading session after all remaining
simultaneous orders (1,800 shares) of securities companies A and B are allocated.




                                          30
Q18 Is it possible for stock prices to jump suddenly, for example
    from ¥1,000 to ¥1,100?
Stock prices are constantly fluctuating. However, if prices make sudden leaps, such as
from ¥1,000 to ¥1,100, and then immediately fall back down to ¥950, investors placing
market orders can find their orders being executed at unexpected and unfavorable prices,
leading to heavy losses. All this makes it extremely difficult for both securities companies
and investors to judge the timing for placing orders.

On the TSE market, an immediate execution only takes place if the next execution price is
within certain parameters based on the previous execution price. These special quote
renewal price intervals are outlined in the chart on the next page.

For example, if the most recently executed price was ¥500, the next execution price must
be within the range ¥490~510. In other words, it may only fluctuate up to ¥10 in either
direction.

So what happens when the next execution looks likely to take place at a price beyond
these quote parameters, for example at ¥550 when the preceding price was ¥500? In
such instances execution does not take place. Instead, TSE indicates a special quote,
which helps to make a smooth transition between such widely divergent prices. (For more
details about special quotes, please see Q19.)

Due to higher demand for execution at closing auctions, to facilitate the formation of closing
prices, for the closing auction of the afternoon session, TSE broadens the executable price
range to twice the renewable price interval from the last price, as shown in the table on the
next page.

When a stock price is ¥500 immediately before the closing auction of the afternoon
session, the closing auction will be conducted with the price range from ¥480 to ¥520,
because the renewal price interval for the closing auction of the afternoon session is ±
¥20; however, if orders cannot be executed within the executable price range the afternoon
session ends without any executions at the afternoon closing auction.




                                               31
                                                                        Renewal price
                                                       Renewal price    interval for the
    Last stock price or special quote price
                                                        interval (±)    afternoon closing
                                                                        auction(±)
                          Less than           ¥ 200               ¥5                  ¥ 10
      ¥ 200 or more   ～     〃                 ¥ 500               ¥8                  ¥ 16
      ¥ 500    〃      ～     〃                 ¥ 700             ¥ 10                  ¥ 20
      ¥ 700    〃      ～     〃                ¥ 1,000            ¥ 15                  ¥ 30
     ¥ 1,000   〃      ～     〃                ¥ 1,500            ¥ 30                  ¥ 60
     ¥ 1,500   〃      ～     〃                ¥ 2,000            ¥ 40                  ¥ 80
     ¥ 2,000   〃      ～     〃                ¥ 3,000            ¥ 50                 ¥ 100
     ¥ 3,000   〃      ～     〃                ¥ 5,000            ¥ 70                 ¥ 140
     ¥ 5,000   〃      ～     〃                ¥ 7,000           ¥ 100                 ¥ 200
     ¥ 7,000   〃      ～     〃               ¥ 10,000           ¥ 150                 ¥ 300
   ¥ 10,000    〃      ～     〃               ¥ 15,000           ¥ 300                 ¥ 600
   ¥ 15,000    〃      ～     〃               ¥ 20,000           ¥ 400                 ¥ 800
   ¥ 20,000    〃      ～     〃               ¥ 30,000           ¥ 500                ¥ 1,000
   ¥ 30,000    〃      ～     〃               ¥ 50,000           ¥ 700                ¥ 1,400
   ¥ 50,000    〃      ～     〃               ¥ 70,000          ¥ 1,000               ¥ 2,000
   ¥ 70,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 100,000             ¥ 1,500               ¥ 3,000
   ¥100,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 150,000             ¥ 3,000               ¥ 6,000
  ¥ 150,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 200,000             ¥ 4,000               ¥ 8,000
  ¥ 200,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 300,000             ¥ 5,000             ¥ 10,000
  ¥ 300,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 500,000             ¥ 7,000             ¥ 14,000
  ¥ 500,000    〃      ～     〃           ¥ 700,000           ¥ 10,000              ¥ 20,000
  ¥ 700,000    〃      ～     〃          ¥ 1,000,000          ¥ 15,000              ¥ 30,000
 ¥ 1,000,000   〃      ～     〃          ¥ 1,500,000          ¥ 30,000              ¥ 60,000
 ¥ 1,500,000   〃      ～     〃          ¥ 2,000,000          ¥ 40,000              ¥ 80,000
 ¥ 2,000,000   〃      ～     〃          ¥ 3,000,000          ¥ 50,000             ¥ 100,000
 ¥ 3,000,000   〃      ～     〃          ¥ 5,000,000          ¥ 70,000             ¥ 140,000
 ¥ 5,000,000   〃      ～     〃          ¥ 7,000,000         ¥ 100,000             ¥ 200,000
 ¥ 7,000,000   〃      ～     〃         ¥ 10,000,000         ¥ 150,000             ¥ 300,000
¥ 10,000,000   〃      ～     〃         ¥ 15,000,000         ¥ 300,000             ¥ 600,000
¥ 15,000,000   〃      ～     〃         ¥ 20,000,000         ¥ 400,000             ¥ 800,000
¥ 20,000,000   〃      ～     〃         ¥ 30,000,000         ¥ 500,000            ¥ 1,000,000
¥ 30,000,000   〃      ～     〃         ¥ 50,000,000         ¥ 700,000            ¥ 1,400,000
¥ 50,000,000   〃                                          ¥ 1,000,000           ¥ 2,000,000




                                       32
Q19 What is a “special quote”?
A special quote is indicated whenever prices look likely to jump beyond a certain price
range (special quote renewal price interval) from the last execution price (e.g. the last
execution price is ¥500, but the next execution price is likely to be less than ¥490 or more
than ¥510). In this way, special quotes are mechanisms to prevent short-term wild price
fluctuations.

Special quotes can be indicated at any time during the trading session, whether it is before
the opening price has been set or during Zaraba trading. They are indicated if there is any
likelihood of inappropriate price fluctuations, for example, as a result of a major order
imbalance between bids and offers. Special offer quotes are indicated when the next
price is anticipated to be at a price lower than the given renewal price interval, and special
bid quotes are indicated when the next price is anticipated to be at a price higher than the
given renewal price interval. (For details on special quote renewal price intervals, please
see Q18.)

Special quote information is publicly disseminated through the TSE market information
system, thus notifying market participants of the order imbalance as soon as possible. A
special quote displayed in the sell side of the order book is a special offer quote; one on
the buy side is a special bid quote. (Please see Q35.)

A special quote indicates to investors that there are orders beyond that price, and
encourages them to place balancing orders on the other side of the order book. If such
orders are placed, matched, and executed, market equilibrium will have been achieved
and the special quote will be removed. If on the other hand, no orders are received the
special quote will be renewed at three minute intervals until equilibrium is achieved.

For example, if a buy order is placed at ¥550 immediately after an execution price of ¥500
and there is no sell order below ¥550, a special bid quote of ¥510 (±¥10 as shown in the
table in Q18) will be indicated. If no offers are received at this price, the special bid quote
will be raised to ¥520 after three minutes, and so on until equilibrium is achieved.

Through the use of a special quote, there will be no sudden fluctuation in prices and
investors can pick a time to place an order. In addition, when a special bid quote is
displayed and a counter-offer comes in, the investor who placed the bid will be able to get
a price nearer to the previous execution price. In other words, execution would take place
at a much lower price than the original bid.




                                                33
Q20 How  are prices determined when a special quote is indicated? (Part 1)
    (E.g.1: Trading is executed at a price widely divergent from the last price)
The renewal of special quotes (SQ) is a gradual process so as to minimize price volatility
when the next execution price looks likely to be beyond the special quote renewal price
interval. This process is explained below.

Let’s assume that a market sell order of 200 shares is placed when the last price is ¥530.
At that point the order book is as follows: a sell order of 100 at a limit price of ¥531, a buy
order of 100 shares at a limit price of ¥510, and a buy order of 300 shares at a limit price
of ¥500.




Now that the Itayose method is being used, the anticipated next price becomes ¥500 and
all market orders must be executed. Thus, the market sell order of 200 shares will be
matched at ¥500 with the 100 shares of the buy order at ¥510, and 100 of the 300 shares
of the buy order at ¥500.




                                           34
In this way, when an SQ is indicated, investors placing market orders benefit from the best
price available and are able to obtain a price nearer the last execution price.




                                              35
         How are prices determined when a special quote is
Q21 indicated? (Part 2)
         (E.g. 2: No execution due to order imbalance)
As explained in Q20, SQs are used when there is a large price discrepancy, but as you
will see, SQs are also used to alleviate major imbalances in the order book, for example
many more buy orders than sell orders. The use of SQs notifies investors of the situation
and encourages opposing orders into the order book to regain equilibrium. Imbalance is
not dependent on the number of shares; an SQ will be shown if there is a market order of
100 shares and no opposing orders.

Let’s suppose that a large number of bids (buy orders) have been received prior to the
setting of the opening price, and that the base price is ¥1,200.




                                         36
          Why are special quotes sometimes not renewed to their daily
Q22 limit prices?
          (Why are there cases where an SQ is not renewed?)
Special quotes cannot be renewed beyond the price of the order that originally prompted
the SQ.




In this case, the bid SQ was displayed to indicate an interest to buy at prices up to ¥995.
In other words, it indicates a situation where bids at ¥995 have the highest priority over all
bids at other prices. It follows that the bid SQ cannot be renewed above the original bid
such as ¥1,010.




                                               37
Q23 What is a “sequential trade quote”?
In high-speed order matching and execution, sequential buying-up or selling-down within
the special quote renewal price interval may result in instantaneous and sharp price
fluctuations without a special quote being displayed at all. The sequential trade quote
(STQ) was a new rule that was introduced to inform investors of such instantaneous price
movement.

If there is sequential execution that is likely to move beyond twice the special quote
renewal price interval from the reference execution price, after execution up to the
“reference price + (renewal price interval x 2)” (or in the case of offers, down to the
“reference price - (renewal price interval x 2)”), a sequential trade quote will be displayed
at this price for one minute. This quote informs investors of an instantaneous and sudden
change in price and attracts opposing orders to counter this price movement. An
explanation of the sequential trade quote mechanism follows.

[STQ Display Condition]
(1) A single order is likely to trigger a series of executions that will move the price beyond
twice the special quote renewal price interval from the reference execution price. (The
reference execution price is the
last execution price.)
(2) Regardless of whether it is a
single order, there is likely to be
a series of executions that will
move the price beyond twice the
special quote renewal price
interval within one minute from
the reference execution. (The
reference execution is set as the
f i r s t exe c u t i o n d u r i n g t h e
continuous trading session, and
it is reset to the first execution
after each time interval elapses.)

During the one-minute period when the sequential trade quote is shown, the Itayose
method is used. After this period, if there is an opposing order at a price within the special
quote renewal price interval from the sequential trade quote, the order will be executed
immediately. If this opposing order is at a price beyond the special quote renewal price
interval from the sequential trade quote, the sequential trade quote will not be renewed,
instead a new special quote will be shown at the price which is the “sequential trade quote
± special quote renewal price interval.”




                                           38
Even if one minute has not passed since an STQ was indicated, orders can be executed
immediately if the sell order volume matches the buy order volume or the balance of
the sell order volume and the buy order volume reverses; and the STQ will be removed.
However, even in the case, the reference execution price will not be renewed until one
minute has passed.

As such, until one minute has passed since the reference execution price was set, even
though orders are executed immediately by the Itayose method, the price will not move
beyond the range of "reference price ± (renewal price interval x 2)".




                                           39
Q24 How  are prices determined when a sequential trade quote is
    indicated?
Sequential buying-up or selling-down within the special quote renewal price interval may
result in instantaneous and sharp price fluctuations without a special quote being
displayed at all. In such cases, a sequential trade quote is shown to inform investors of an
instantaneous and sudden change in price and attract opposing orders to counter this
price movement.

First of all, sequential execution by a single order is shown as follows:
Let’s suppose that there is a market buy order for 1,000 shares when the last price in
Zaraba trading is ¥100.




                                          40
In Itayose trading, all market orders and bids and offers at prices better than the contract
price must be executed. So in this case, we can expect execution at ¥111.

In actual operations, the whole process from 1,000 market buy orders coming into the
order book up to the display of the buy sequential trade quote at ¥110 is handled at
extremely high speed, and may not be visible to the naked eye.




In this way, a sequential trade quote can suppress instantaneous and sudden price
movement caused by executions of a single order.




                                              41
Next, sequential execution by multiple orders within one minute is shown as follows:
Let’s suppose that there is execution at ¥100 in Zaraba after the first transaction at 9:00,
and multiple orders are placed below.




In this way, if there is sequential execution due to orders placed by different investors in a
short time, a sequential trade quote is indicated.
The reference execution is set as the first execution during the continuous trading session
and is reset to the first execution after each time interval elapses.
A sequential trade quote will be displayed even when the series of executions is not in a
single direction (for example, ¥100-> ¥96-> ¥97-> ¥93->…).



                                           42
Q25 What is a “closing auction at the limit price”?
As explained in Q7, all stocks have fixed ranges within which their prices can fluctuate
during a day. Occasionally, the price of a stock may rise or fall to their upper or lower
daily limit price as a result of strong positive or negative public sentiment. Due to investor
decisions to “buy at any price” or “sell at any price”, there may be cases of a large number
of market orders which cause a major order imbalance.

Normally, Itayose is used during the closing auction to determine the closing price. It
follows that all market orders and bids and offers at better prices must be executed.
However, if there is a large volume of orders on either side of the order book, this
condition cannot be fulfilled, there will be no order matching or execution, and the closing
price cannot be set.

In order to match and execute orders at the daily limit price, instead of the normal Itayose
method, TSE uses a special mechanism with relaxed conditions for closing auctions at the
limit price to determine the closing price of the afternoon session.


       [Requirements of Closing Auction at the Limit Price]
       1. All market orders are treated as limit orders at the daily limit price.

       2. In the case of a closing auction at the upper daily limit price, if there is a
            sell order of at least one trading unit, the allocation by the “closing
           auction at the limit price” will take place. (In the case of the closing
           auction at the lower limit price, there must be a buy order of at least one
           trading unit at the lower daily limit price.)
       * The “closing auction at the limit price” will take place if one unit is
          allocated to any securities company. As a result, some securities
          companies may not receive any units.


These requirements only apply “when there is order matching and execution at the daily
limit price at the afternoon closing auction, and also orders cannot be executed under
normal Itayose requirements”.

In other words, these requirements do not apply to the closing auction of the morning
trading session, execution at the daily limit prices during continuous auction trading, or
execution at the daily limit prices at the afternoon closing auction if normal Itayose
requirements can be met.




                                                43
Q26 How are closing auctions at the limit price processed?
During closing auctions at the limit price, shares are executed as follows:

1. The table below is a summary of the situation at the afternoon closing auction. The
    current price, a bid SQ, is ¥500. Execution cannot take place because there are
    insufficient sell orders (400 shares) to fulfil the conditions of matching all the market
    buy orders (1,100 shares).




2. TSE initiates a closing auction at the limit price. This means that all market orders are
    treated as limit orders at the limit price. This gives us bids for a total of 1,500 shares at
    ¥500.




The requirements for the closing auction at the limit price are fulfilled as long as buy
orders of one trading unit at the limit price of ¥500 is allocated to any one securities
company, orders are matched and the closing price is set.

In a closing auction at the limit price, all orders at the daily limit price are treated as
simultaneous orders, and time priority does not apply. (For details on the allocaton of
simultaneous orders, please see Q15.)

Since all market orders and orders at the daily limit price are treated as orders at the same
price with no time priority, in other words there is no clear order priority. Orders are
allocated one trading unit each in turn to securities companies in descending order of
total number of shares placed per securities company.

In this case, the sell orders of 400 shares will be allocated in descending order of total
number of shares placed. This means that one trading unit will be allocated to each of the
securities companies A, D, C, and B in that order.



                                            44
Q27 What is a “closing auction session”?
A. TSE has introduced a closing auction session for trading at the close of the afternoon
    session to improve the transparency of closing price formation. Specifically, after a
    5-minute order acceptance time (pre-closing session) from the close of Zaraba trading
    (at 15:25), an Itayose is conducted at 15:30.

Let’s look at the closing auction session process below.

                        15:25                                                               15:30


  Zaraba         Closing of Zaraba          Order acceptance time            Closing of session (Itayose)
                  (Last price JPY100)            (Pre Closing)            (Executable price range : JPY 90 ～ 110)

            ・Itayose will not be        ・Order book information will be        ・Itayose will be conducted
             conducted at the close      disseminated                           after the order acceptance
             of Zaraba.                 ・Able to place new orders and           time.
            ・Processing of “on close”    modify/cancel existing orders
             orders


First, orders that have not been executed by the close of Zaraba trading are automatically
registered on the pre-closing session. At the start of the pre-closing session (15:25), on-
close orders and funari orders (limit orders that become market orders at the closing
auction session if not already executed) will be registered in the order book.

During the pre-closing session, only orders are accepted, and no trades are executed.
New orders and modifications/cancellations of existing orders can be placed, but execution
conditions cannot be modified. Similar to before trading begins, order book information will
be distributed. (Please see Q36 for more details.)

The pre-closing session then ends at the close of the afternoon session (15:30), and an
Itayose is conducted. The priority of orders at the same price is as follows. (Please refer to
Q15 for the handling of simultaneous orders.)
(i) Orders accepted before the opening price for the afternoon session has been
determined (treated as simultaneous orders)
(ii) Orders accepted during Zaraba after the opening price for the afternoon session has
been determined (the principle of time priority will be applied).
(iii) On-close orders and funari orders registered in the order book at the start of the
pre-closing session and orders accepted during the pre-closing session (treated as
simultaneous orders, as distinguished from (i) above).

The executable price range for the close of the afternoon session is twice the renewal
price interval from the last price (the final price in Zaraba trading). Therefore, the closing
price in the above example would be determined between JPY 90 and JPY 110.




                                                   45
Q28 How  are orders executed in the closing auction session
    (Itayose at the close of the afternoon session)?
A. Let's have a look at how trades are executed during the closing auction session (Itayose
    at the close of the afternoon session), using the following example.

This is before an Itayose at the close of the afternoon session (all orders received by the
time the opening price is determined have been executed). In this situation, as a result of
Itayose trading at the close of the afternoon session, 1,000 shares will be executed at JPY
500, which means, 1,000 of 1,500 shares of buy orders will be executed.

  Offer          Price         Bid
                 M.O.
   1,000          500          1,500

Breakdown of bids
   orders placed in the afternoon Zaraba     200(A)、300(C)、100(A, On close)、400(B)
  orders placed in the pre-closing session   200(B)、300(C)


According to the priority of orders indicated in Q27, of orders during Zaraba in the
afternoon session, all of the 900 shares without execution conditions (200 shares from
securities company A, 400 shares from securities company B, and 300 shares from
securities company C) will be executed. The on-close order of 100 shares placed by
securities company A during Zaraba, combined with the orders of 500 shares during
the pre-closing session (200 shares from securities company B and 300 shares from
securities company C) will be treated as simultaneous orders.

In the case of simultaneous orders, the orders are totaled for each securities company
(100 shares from securities company A, 200 shares from securities company B, and
300 shares from securities company C), and the remaining 100 shares are allocated to
securities company C from the securities company with the largest order volume to the
one with the smallest order volume.



To increase opportunities for closing price formation, even if trades are not executed
through a normal Itayose or a closing auction at the limit price, TSE allows trades to
be executed under the following conditions during Itayose at the close of the afternoon
session. This is called a “special execution".




                                             46
          [Requirements of Special Execution]
          If the cumulative total volume of buy orders* and the cumulative total
          volume of sell orders are at least 1 unit each at the upper (or lower) limit of
          the renewal price interval at the close of the afternoon session, trades will
          be executed at the upper (or lower) limit of the renewal price interval at the
          close of the afternoon session.
          * Total volume of orders at the upper (or lower) limit of the renewal price
           interval and the price that takes precedence over said upper (or lower)
           limit at the close of the afternoon session.


For example, in the case shown below (assuming the last price in Zaraba is JPY 500), not
all market buy orders will be executed, and therefore, no trade will be executed by normal
Itayose method. However, looking at the order status at JPY 520, which is the upper limit
of the renewal price interval at the close of the afternoon session, the cumulative total
of buy orders is 900 shares and the cumulative total of sell orders is 300 shares, so the
conditions for a special execution are met and 300 shares will be executed at JPY 520.

  Offer           Price             Bid
  200             M.O.             (3)600
  200              540
                   530             (1)200
  100              520             (2)100
                   510
                   500
    *Numerals in brackets - time of acceptance


The priority of orders in the special execution is determined based on the time at
which orders were placed, regardless of prices or execution conditions. Therefore, of a
cumulative total of 900 share of buy orders, 200 shares of buy orders at JPY 530 and 100
shares of buy orders at JPY 520 will be executed.




                                                  47
Q29 Is there a special mechanism for trading newly-listed
    stocks?
Basically newly-listed stocks are traded in the same way as any other listed stocks. The
Itayose method is used to determine the initial price (Note 1) and after that the Zaraba
method is used.

(Note 1: The first execution price after listing is known as the “initial price”.)


However, there is one point in which the trading rules for newly listed stocks do differ from
those of other listed stocks. This is that the daily price limit does not apply until an initial
price has been determined. This rule only applies to “directly listed stock” or stocks that
have never been listed or registered on any other market before. This is because they
do not have a previous market price, and it is important for a reasonable market price to
be determined as quickly and smoothly as possible. Daily price limits can only come into
effect once an initial price has been determined. (Note 2)

Also, after the initial price is determined, bids above the upper limit price and offers below
the lower limit price will be replaced with orders at the limit prices, and bids below the
lower limit price and offers above the upper limit price will become void.

For example, let’s consider the case of a directly listed stock that has a public offering
price of ¥700. If TSE applies the daily price limits, the stock will only be able to trade
between ¥550 and ¥850 (the renewal price interval is ±¥150 for this base price).
However, because the daily price limits are not applied until the initial price has been
determined it is possible for an initial price of ¥1,000 to be achieved. Daily price limits are
applied based on the initial price, so in this case the stock may trade at ¥700~¥1,300 after
the initial transaction (the renewal price interval is ±¥300 for this base price). In the case
of bids, those above ¥1,300 will be replaced with bids at ¥1,300, and those below ¥700
will become void. In the case of offers, those below ¥700 will be replaced with offers at
¥700, and those above ¥1,300 will become void.

Flexibility is also shown with regard to the application of special quotes. Generally TSE
allows special quotes to renew to a price which is 2.3 times the public offering price when
the price goes up (depending on the circumstances, special quotes may be renewed at
intervals of 5% of the public offering price, or at renewal price intervals), or 75% of the
offering price when the price goes down (special quotes will be renewed at renewal price
intervals).




                                                     48
As indicated above, these measures do not apply to stocks that transferred from other
markets (including overseas markets) as reasonable market prices have already been
established for them. Such stocks are treated in exactly the same way as other listed
stocks even if the initial price on the TSE market has not been determined.

(Note 2: Before the initial price is determined, orders can only be placed within a certain price range.
Upper price limit: Public offering price* × 4
Lower price limit: Public offering price* ÷ 4
*: On or after the second day of listing, the final quote price)




                                                        49
Q30 What is a trading halt?
A trading halt is used to confirm the truth and content of information before disclosure to
the public when information considered likely to materially affect investment decisions
becomes available.

TSE temporarily halts trading in stocks of companies about which important information,
such as a merger or capital increase, is officially disclosed and TSE deems it is necessary
to disseminate it to the public. In such cases, trading resumes 15 minutes after an official
announcement is made by those listed companies.

TSE also halts trading in stocks of companies about which unclear but materially important
information is broadcasted via information vendors or other news sources. In such cases,
trading resumes 15 minutes after an official announcement on the details or truth of such
information is disclosed.

Placement, correction, and cancellation of orders may be made during a trading halt;
however, each securities company has its own rules for treatment of orders when trading
is halted, so investors should clarify how their orders will be treated during a trading halt.

Trading resumes under the Itayose method. All orders placed before the initial price is
determined after trading resumes are treated as simultaneous orders.

Timeline of a Trading Halt




                                           50
51
          What are a Security to Be Delisted, Security Under
Q31 Supervision, Security on Special Alert, and Alert Regarding
          Unclear Information, etc.?
TSE designates listed stocks as a Security to Be Delisted or Security under Supervision in
order to warn investors of the situation of certain stocks and to give them enough time to
prepare for when TSE decides to delist such stocks. In the market data section of most
Japanese newspapers, prices of stocks which have been so designated are printed in a
section separate from sector classifications.

Securities Under Supervision
Listed stocks are designated as a Security Under Supervision (examination) or Security
Under Supervision (confirmation) when they are likely to fall under any of TSE’s delisting
criteria so that investors are properly warned and prepared.
If a listed company is found to have made a false statement in documents such as the
Securities Report and TSE deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the market if
the listed company is not delisted immediately, the stock will be designated as a Security
Under Supervision (examination) during the period when TSE examines whether such
listed company falls under the delisting criteria. During the period when TSE checks
whether such listed company falls under specific delisting criteria such as number of
shareholders, the stock will be designated as a Security Under Supervision (confirmation).
Trading methods for stocks so designated are the same as those used in ordinary trading.
If a decision is made to delist a stock, it will be designated as a Security to Be Delisted.

Security to Be Delisted
Listed stocks are designated as Securities to Be Delisted in order to warn investors and
give them enough time to trade out of the stock after the listed stocks fall under the
delisting criteria of TSE and TSE decides to delist them. In principle, TSE delists a stock
after trading as Securities to Be Delisted for a certain period of time TSE decides. Trading
methods for such stocks are, in principle, the same as those in ordinary trading; however,
on the day after a stock is designated as a Security to Be Delisted, TSE may broaden its
daily price limits. (Please see Q32 for more details.)




                                           52
Securities on Special Alert
Sometimes a listed company is found to have made a false statement in documents such
as the Securities Report or TSE deems that a listed company has violated the timely
disclosure rules, and if TSE deems that it is necessary for such listed company to make
improvements to aspects such as its internal control system, the stock of such company
shall be designated as a Security on Alert.

Alert Regarding Unclear Information, etc.
TSE has a system for issuing alerts regarding information about securities or its issuers
if it deems necessary to inform investors. In particular, TSE will issue an alert in such
situations as: i) when unclear information that is deemed likely to have material impact
on investment decisions becomes available in news reports, etc.; ii) when the issuer of
a security will require some time to disclose information in an appropriate manner; or iii)
when the information that can be immediately disclosed is limited.
When an alert is issued, TSE informs investors of such alert by means including notices to
securities companies and posts on the JPX website.
If a stock, for which margin transactions can be made, becomes subject to the alert, TSE
may publish outstanding margin transactions of said stock on a daily basis.




                                              53
Q32 When does TSE broaden the daily price limits?
As explained in Q7, all listed stocks on the TSE market have daily price limits which limit
price fluctuation in one day. Sometimes trading in a stock cannot be executed for several
days due to these daily price limits even though investors place orders, targeting prices
beyond the price limits due to positive or negative information about the stock. In such
cases, TSE broadens the stock’s daily price limits in order to prompt smooth execution if
certain conditions are met. Various conditions are considered before broadening a stock’s
daily price limits.
TSE disseminates information about an adjustment of daily price limits in advance via
channels such as the JPX website.

Abolition of Daily Price Limit
Generally, a stock price will fall rapidly when a stock is designated as a Security to Be
Delisted due to reasons such as bankruptcy and civil rehabilitation. However, depending
on the current stock price, it sometimes takes several days after such designation for the
stock to reach an equilibrium price because the daily price limits prevent the price from
fluctuating excessively.
In such cases, TSE monitors the situation of orders in the stock on the first trading day
after such designation, and when TSE judges that the stock price will obviously drop, TSE
will then abolish the daily price limits (i.e., broaden the lower price limit of the stock to ¥1)
on the next trading day in order to prompt smooth execution.




                                            54
      SECTION 3
— TSE market information services —




                55
Q33 What kind of market information is available to investors?
Market information allows investors to assess the current market situation and judge
whether stock prices are relatively high or low. This allows investors to make informed
investment decisions.

TSE provides the following kinds of market information: the price of every transaction, the
opening/highest/lowest/closing prices for each stock, trading value and trading volume, as
well as TOPIX (Tokyo Stock Price Index) information.

While information on stock prices and trading volume is only generated after a transaction,
the following information on the current situation in the order book is also available for
each stock:

Full order information
TSE provides information on order quantity at the various prices for orders (including
orders for execution at the closing auction) on a particular stock. Other information such as
base prices and order book information are also available.
Please note that information available to investors may vary depending on securities
companies and content provided by information terminal services.
(Please see Q34 for more details.)

Ten best bid/offer quotes
TSE provides information on order quantities at the best bid (offer) price, the second to
tenth highest (lowest) prices, and the aggregated bid (offer) quantity of the eleventh
highest (lowest) prices or lower (higher). (Please see Q34 for more details.)

Special quote
Special quotes are indicated when there is an order imbalance. TSE provides information
on special quote prices and the aggregated offers and bids up to that price, the nine next
best quotes on each side with the total number of shares at those prices, as well as
market order quantity (only during Itayose). (Please see Q35 for more details.)




                                               57
Pre-opening quote
Investors are obviously interested in the state of the order book before the opening
auction takes place. So TSE provides a pre-opening quote, which indicates the price
at which bids and offers will balance, the nine best bid and offer prices with the total
number of shares at those prices, as well as market order quantity (TSE also provides this
information during the pre-closing session). In other words, the pre-opening quote is an
estimate of the opening price. This quote changes frequently up until the opening auction
as more orders continue to reach the order book. (Please see Q36 for more details.)

TSE provides this information to securities companies and information vendors. Individual
private investors can access this information by contracting one of these companies.




                                         58
Q34 How are the ten best offer/bid quotes indicated?
As mentioned in Q33, TSE provides details of the ten best bid and offer quotes during
Zaraba trading, allowing investors to assess what orders are most appropriate.

The table below shows that, looking at the ten best offer/bid quote information, an investor
placing a market buy order of 1,000 shares can expect immediate execution at ¥501.
Likewise, an investor placing a sell order for 1,000 shares at a limit price of ¥499 can
expect execution of 600 shares at ¥500 and 400 shares at ¥499.




                                              59
Q35 How are special quotes indicated?
As mentioned in Q33, TSE indicates the special quote and the aggregate shares on each
side of the order book up to the special quote price, the nine next best buy and sell prices
with their number of shares, as well as the market order quantity.

The table below shows the order book with a special bid quote of ¥500. TSE calculates
the aggregates of offers at prices lower than and equal to that price, and of bids at prices
higher than or equal to that price. Information on bids for prices between ¥491 to ¥499
and offers between ¥501 to ¥509, as well as market order quantity is displayed.




* When a sequential trade quote is indicated, other than the symbol for the quote, the
   information available will be the same as described above.




                                          60
Q36 How are pre-opening quotes indicated?
As mentioned in Q33, investors are keenly interested in the state of the order book before
the opening price is determined. TSE provides pre-opening quotes in the period prior to
the opening auctions (from 08:00 for the morning session, and from 12:05 for the afternoon
session). This quote is an estimate of the expected opening price, and only indicates
a probability. It is the equilibrium price of current offers and bids. During this period,
aggregated bids and offers, the best nine offers at prices higher than the quote price,
the best nine bids at prices lower than the quote price, as well as market order quantity
are also shown. TSE also provides this information during the pre-closing session.
The following table illustrates the order book prior to the start of trading. As you can see,
the aggregated bids and offers invert at ¥500 and ¥499 respectively. So TSE indicates an
aggregated bid of 900 shares at ¥499 and an aggregated offer of 1,000 shares at ¥500.
The quantities of limit sell orders between ¥501and ¥509, limit buy orders between ¥490
and ¥498, as well as market orders will also be shown. This informs investors that the
opening price is likely to be either ¥499 or ¥500.




                                               61
As mentioned in Q33, orders continue to be placed into the trading system right up until
the opening auction, so the pre-opening price will change to reflect the balance of orders.
Thus, a pre-opening quote indicated earlier could very well change after few moments. So
placing a market sell order when the stock seemed likely to open slightly higher puts an
investor at risk of execution at a lower price caused by subsequent changes in the order
book.




                                          62
     SECTION 4
— How trading works on ToSTNeT —




               63
Q37 What is “ToSTNeT”?
ToSTNeT (Tokyo Stock Exchange Trading Network System) is TSE’s new trading system
for “off-hour trading” and was launched in 1998 in order to respond to the diversified
trading needs of investors.
ToSTNeT has three sub-categories, ToSTNeT-1, ToSTNeT-2 and ToSTNeT-3, designed
for different types of trading. ToSTNeT-1 provides two kinds of transactions, Single-Issue
Transactions and Basket Transactions, which are mainly for institutional investors.
ToSTNeT-2 provides Closing Price Transactions for individual investors. ToSTNeT-3
provides Off-Auction Own Share Repurchase Transactions for listed companies.




                                             65
Q38 What are the trading rules and criteria for ToSTNeT?
Trading rules and criteria for ToSTNeT vary by type of transaction as follows.




            T+1～T+9
            T+0 (Transaction between the same participant only)




                                           66
VWAP: Volume Weighted Average Price of an individual stock is calculated by dividing its trading value by its
trading volume.
(*1) VWAP guarantee transaction: A type of transaction that aims to guarantee VWAP-based executions. It is
cross-matched with clients’ sell or buy orders at the pre-arranged VWAP net price (brokerage commissions
included).
(*2) VWAP target transaction: A type of transaction that aims for VWAP. Traders first execute a transaction for
a number of shares that is pre-arranged with a client in an issue in the auction market. The VWAP target
transaction is then cross-matched with clients’ sell or buy orders at the VWAP of the execution result.
Transactions at the VWAP net price of clients’ execution results (brokerage commissions included) are also
available.
(*3) In case the amount obtained by multiplying the last price in the auction market by 7% is below JPY5, the
range will be JPY5 above or below the last price in the auction market.




                                                        67
Q39 What is Share Buyback (or Repurchase) via ToSTNeT?
A listed company conducts a share buyback with prior announcement to repurchase
stocks in the auction market, through ToSTNeT-2 or ToSTNeT-3 in cases where
shareholders are scheduled to sell their shares due to their actions such as unwinding
cross-shareholdings. In the event of such a buyback, an announcement containing details
of the buyback or repurchase program is made one day in advance of the actual buyback.

In general, the merits of a share buyback with prior announcement are:
1. Flexibility and low cost: Able to buy flexibly at prices while monitoring daily stock prices.
    It also does not require statutory declaration unlike takeover bids (TOB) and such other
    corporate actions.
2. Able to buy a specified number of shares all at once from shareholders.
3. Disclosure dispels concerns over infringing insider trading and market manipulation
    rules.
4. Secure trading opportunities for other shareholders, as well as ensure fairness and
    transparency of transactions by adopting TSE trading rules for the buyback.

In addition, transactions through ToSTNeT-2 also provide the following merits:
1. Predetermined repurchase* value due to transaction at a predetermined price.
   * Depending on the shareholder, it may be a sale.
2. Secure trading opportunities for other shareholders by adopting time priority.
3. Avoid direct impact on the market through fixed price transactions performed outside
    auction trading hours.

TSE started ToSTNeT-3 on January 15, 2008. While ToSTNeT-3 is similar to ToSTNeT-2
in terms of fixed price transactions, it differs from ToSTNeT-2 on the following points.
1. Since buy orders are limited to bids by listed companies which intend to buy, execution
    of bids is guaranteed.
2. Securities companies who place such bids on behalf of listed companies are required to
    notify the TSE one business day before the intended bid.
3. Where the number of offers exceeds the number of bids, trading opportunities for other
    shareholders are secured through matching by the pro rata ratio method.
4. Margin trading is not allowed.




                                            68
                               NOTICE
The contents of this guidebook are copyrighted. This guidebook，whether in
part or in its entirely，may not be diverted，reproduced，quoted，altered，or
sold without prior permission.

The sole purpose of this guidebook is to explain TSE' s trading
methodology，and is not meant in anyway as investment advice. AII
comments and calculations are given as examples only.

The contents of this guidebook may be altered or deleted by TSE at any
time without prior notice.

Please access our website for further information.

https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/
Copyright (c) 2024 Tokyo Stock Exchange，Inc. AII rights reserved
                                                                   (2024.9)
